

Language Directories
--------------------

ar -- Arabic.  To be used with morphology engine; see morphology/ar

de -- German. Contains dictionaries for a few thousand words, that's
      all. Incomplete.

en -- English. Complete set.

fa -- Farsi.  To be used with morphology engine; see morphology/fa

he -- Hebrew. Experimental prototype. Contains a few dozen words.

id -- Indonesian. Experimental prototype. Contains a few hundred words.

kz -- Kazakh. Experimental prototype. Contains a few dozen words.

lt -- Lithuanian. Experimental prototype. Contains a few hundred words,
      and implements only a few parts of speech.

ru -- Russian.  Complete set of dictionaries, should parse most text.
      Support needs to be added for conjunctions (and, or, but...)
      Could use work on supporting regular expressions for numbers,
      Russian-ized Latin technical terms, etc.  See the English 4.0.regex
      file for more.

th -- Thai.  Complete set of dictionaries, consist of more than 100,000 words and should parse most text.

tr -- Turkish. Experimental prototype. Contains a few dozen words.

vn -- Vietnamese. Experimental prototype. Contains a few hundred words.

any -- Will parse "any" language, exploring all combinatoric possibilities.
       This is useful for certain machine-learning tasks, when one might
       want to iterate over all possible parse trees in every way.

ady -- Will parse "any" language, exploring all possible morphological
       decompositions of the words in a sentence, as well as using
       random linkages between words and morphemes. The assumed
       morphology splits a word into at most two parts: a stem,
       having no syntactic structure, and a suffix, which carries
       the inflection -- that is, the stem carries all the syntactic
       structure.

amy -- Will parse "any" language, exploring all possible morphological
       decompositions of the words in a sentence, as well as using
       random linkages between words and morphemes. Configured to
       explore morphology of 3 or more parts: syntactically inactive
       prefixes and stems, and a single syntactically active suffix.

demo-sql -- An almost empty demonstration dictionary, showing what an
       SQLite-backed dictionary might look like.

demo-atomese -- A demonstration configuration for an AtomSpace-backed
       dictionary. The lookup of words in the dictionary will be
       performed by contacting the configured cogserver to obtain
       disjunct data.

gen -- An empty template for autogenerated grammars. Part of the
       language-learning project. This provide just enough boilerplate
       to allow the `link-generator` binary to run.
